---
title: "Code lab Week 2~4"
last_modified_at: 2021-11-07
categories:
  - Event
tags:
  - Post Formats
  - readability
  - standard
---

### Week 2, 3, and 4 Mega thread.
 
Before we get into the details, big thanks to all the speakers for coming to the code lab, what you presented goes a long way in shaping the future of the attending students, even if they chose not to go into tech.

Special thanks to Sam Lin for contacting the speakers and giving advice throughout the 4-week journey.

Lastly thanks to all the students that attended and gave feedback on what to improve in the code lab, this project is far from perfect, but with your help, we are one step closer.
 
Week 2 is all about setting up a virtual machine on the Google Cloud Platform. We kick off with guest speaker Yahan Zhou, sharing his progress of starting in tech, as well as some insights regarding the previously emerging market of GPU.
Afterward, transitioned into one of the most chaotic code labs up to date. Apparently, being a teacher isn't about looking at the material and reciting everything word by word like a robot. It's a shame that past me didn't fully understand that and went on to impersonate a drunk text-to-speech program on steroids.
 
Week 3, we are joined with guest speaker Agatha Man, talking briefly about getting into tech, sharing advice on planning and preparing for interviews in big tech. 
Headed into the code lab, having learned the lesson from the previous week, the pace was a lot more mellow. We went over the few major questions collected from the previous week, patched up a few issues that have been bothering the students, and into the main topic.
This week is centered around how source control works and the process of building an Android system. This was also the week that we received most questions out of the 4, partially because the foundation laying at week 2 wasn’t as solid as one would wish, and partially because this is one of the more content-dense weeks out of the 4.
 
     Last but definitely not least, coming in week 4, we have Ying Qi to talk a bit about starting a career in CS despite previously studying in a different major, alongside some pointers for who wishes to become an international student one day. 
Having known how to set up a virtual machine on the Google cloud platform and the components that go into building a functional Android system, the last week was dedicated to using all that we have learned and making a custom Android development environment as well as tweaking the Android system.
Doing so allows the students to take on projects on their own in the future, knowing how to create a VM that is tailored to their needs, as well as how to package and distribute the machine image to others in their team. 
 
